Q: What is the application deadline?
Application deadlines for first round admission decisions are listed by grade level at www.hpa.edu/admissions/how-to-apply

Q: When should an applicant begin the admission process?
A: Once the application for the upcoming academic year is available on the HPA website, applicants are welcome to engage in the admission process. By starting the process early in the fall, applicants have more time to consider the opportunities at HPA and gather supplemental materials for the application process.

Q: What happens if an application is late?
A: If an application is received after the priority deadline, the applicant will move into the rolling decision process and s/he will be considered after those applicants who have submitted complete files by the priority deadline. Rolling admission decisions will be made based on space availability.

Q: How many applicants are admitted each year?
A: Typically, about 120 students are admitted each year, grades K-12, PG.

Q: How many applicants are accepted into the residential program each year?
A: About 45 students are accepted into our residential program each year (grades 9- 12, PG), with the majority going into grade 9 (35 boarders).

Q: Do applicants need to take the SSAT?
A: Applicants applying to grades 6-11, HPA are required to submit SSAT scores as part of the admission process. In rare cases, HPA will allow other standardized test scores in lieu of the SSAT. Applicants from countries that do not offer the SSAT should contact the Admission Office. Applicants applying to grade 12 and PG may submit the following in lieu of the SSAT: College Board PSAT or SAT, ACT, PLAN, EXPLORE, as well as psycho-educational testing or Woodcock Johnson test administered in the past 18 months.

Q: How important are test scores?
A: Test scores are considered within the context of the student’s complete application. Test scores can provide insight into a student’s academic capability and potential. Students are highly encouraged to prepare for, complete, and submit test scores to ensure a complete application file. For test dates, visit www.ssat.org. HPA test center code is 3766.

Q: Is admission to Upper School guaranteed for enrolled Middle School students?
A: If a student is in good academic and financial standing with the school and has an acceptable behavioral record, s/he will be offered enrollment to the Upper School.

Q: What does HPA look for in an applicant?
A: HPA is a selective institution, which means we are looking for applicants who are seeking a challenging environment where they will be among peers who share their ambition and initiative. We believe there are many ways to make an impact on the world and at HPA we give serious consideration to grades and test scores, but HPA also is looking for a “good match” between the applicant and the school. By “good match” we mean someone whose values are aligned with HPA’s, which include holding oneself to a high moral and ethical standard and looking for opportunities to make positive change in the world. We also are looking for applicants who identify as a contributor, who are engaged, and embody a collaborative spirit; those who are willing to step outside their comfort zone and try new things; those who express a healthy curiosity and are excited about learning; those who strive for balance and can prioritize their commitments; and those who understand the value of creating space for reflection in their life. Of course, there is no one profile that represents the student community here at HPA, but there are definitely common threads that run throughout. Some applicants come into the admissions process already exhibiting these attributes; others have noted potential. In the selection process, we are looking for applicants who we believe will thrive on campus and who will come academically prepared.

Q: Is there an age cutoff for kindergarten applicants?
A: Yes. Applicants must turn 5 years old by July 31st of the kindergarten entry year.

Q: What if an application is incomplete?
A: If an applicant’s admission file is incomplete at the time of an admission deadline, the Admission Committee will not put the applicant’s file into the review process. If a family does not anticipate being able to complete an applicant’s file, this matter should be discussed with the Admission Office well in advance of the admission deadline.

Q: Can an applicant visit the campus?
A: On-island families may visit campus during one of the HPA Open House or Preview Day events in the fall. The Middle School Preview Day event offers students and their families the opportunity to visit classes with student ambassadors, tour campus, meet with faculty, administrators, admissions staff, and students. Off-island families who are unable to attend the admissions events are encouraged to contact the Admission Office to schedule a campus visit. To learn more visit www.hpa.edu/admissions/events

Q: Can an applicant shadow a student?
A: Visiting classes is available through our group tours during Preview Day events. To learn more visit www.hpa.edu/admissions/events. Shadow opportunities are very limited and reserved for students applying to the Upper School boarding program.

Q: Do applicants need to submit all of the pieces of the application at the same time?
A: No, the application, student statement, parent statement, and all supplemental material may be submitted separately. It is important for the applicant and family to submit their material as early as possible and to begin working with the applicant’s school and teachers to ensure their material also is submitted on time.

Q: What are the requirements for home-schooled applicants?
A: Applicants who have been home-schooled must submit the following information in addition to, or in place of, a school transcript, and all of the required materials on the application checklist: Documentation of compliance with a state accredited home schooling program. Explanation of philosophy: explain the philosophy that guides the approach to your home schooling. Provide specific home-school dates for the applicant. Comprehensive description of home-school curriculum: books and resources that have been used in the applicant's school experience. Provide a syllabi, if available. Grades for each course taken and description of the grading standards. Describe what factors played into your decision to home school your child. How do you think your child will performan in an independent school environment both socially and academically ?

Q: If an applicant is not accepted in Early Decision, what happens?
A: There is a chance that an applicant will not be granted Early Decision, but may still be considered within the context of the priority applicant pool. We will notify the applicant on January 15 that the admission decision has been deferred and the application will be moved into the priority applicant pool to receive an official decision on March 10.

Q: Does HPA allow students to repeat a year?
A: Families must discuss this with the Admission Office and there must be a compelling reason for the request. It is rare that HPA would allow a student to repeat a year, however, it is possible.

Q: Does HPA offer five-day boarding?
A: HPA offers limited spaces for on-island five-day boarding.

Q: Does HPA accept applications for Spring semester?
A: Yes. HPA accepts applications for the Spring semester and admission will be on a space available basis. Applicants for Spring semester should contact the admission office to discuss this option.

Q: Is an interview required?
A: Depending on the grade a student is applying to and the time of year, an individual or group interview will be scheduled for an applicant. Interviews are scheduled at the discretion of the Admission Office.

Q: Does an applicant have to live in the area to be eligible as a day student?
A: Day student status: A student may be considered for day status only if the student lives full time with a biological parent on the Island of Hawai‘i and they reside north of Captain Cook or north of Pepeekeo. Students who live south of either town must be classified as boarding students. HPA does offer 5-day boarding to students in grades 9-12 & PG, based on space availability. A student may be considered for 5-day boarding status if the student lives full time with a biological parent anywhere on the Island of Hawai‘i.

Q: How competitive is admission to HPA?
A: HPA is a selective school and competition varies at each level, particularly in the day student pool. Our primary entry points are grades K, 6, and 9. Typically, there are very limited spaces available in grades K-5 and 10-12 & PG.

Q: When and how are admission decisions communicated?
A: Early decisions (seven-day boarding students only) will be communicated before January 15. For Kindergarten, priority admission decisions will be communicated on February 27. For grades 1-12 and PG priority admission decisions will be communicated on March 6.

Q: How large is the wait pool and how does it work?
A: The size of the wait pool varies from year to year. If we are unable to offer an applicant, who is considered acceptable, a space in his/her given grade, we will offer a space in the admission wait pool. The applicant will remain in the wait pool until a space becomes available. At that point, all of the applicants for that grade will be considered for the space and one will receive an enrollment offer. Otherwise, students will remain in the wait pool until the start of the school year, at which time the wait pool will be dissolved. Students seeking admission for the following school year may reengage in the admission process in the fall. Reengagement typically requires the family to request additional grade reports and teacher recommendations, as agreed upon with the Admission Office.

Q: Is admission to Upper School guaranteed for HPA Middle School students?
A: If a current HPA Middle School student is in good academic, social and financial standing with the school, they will be offered re-enrollment each year. Applicants enrolled in Middle School do not need to apply for Upper School.

Q: If an applicant is denied admission, can they apply again?
A: Yes. A student may need more time to develop their academic profile or other forms of readiness and HPA understands that a student who is previously not offered admission may be more ready at some point in the future.

Q: Does HPA offer athletic or other scholarships?
A: HPA offers merit and need-based scholarships, in addition to Financial Aid. To learn more, visit: https://www.hpa.edu/admissions/financial-aid/scholarships
